[EXT-DOC] Reduces friction for Manifest V3 Welcome page (#3594)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/intro/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'
title: Welcome to Manifest V3
subhead: 'A step in the direction of security, privacy, and performance.'
description: 'An introduction to Manifest V3'
date: 2020-11-09

> updated: 2022-09-02

Reviewer: Did this edit change any technical content? The updated tag is only supposed to be used for that. This helps us surface changes developers should pay attention to vs those that merely correct text.

Author: The most important information added is the MV2 sunset timeline, which wasn't available when this article was first published. I consider this a significant addition. What do you think? 🤔

---

This site introduces Manifest V3, short for Manifest Version 3, which is the latest iteration of the Chrome extension platform. It shares the background and reasons for introducing Manifest V3 and the vision for the platform's future, along with resources on how to migrate.

> ## What is a Manifest?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is a manifest?
```

Reviewer: This is a common noun not a proper noun. The way to remember which is which is that common nouns are classes and proper nouns are instances.

> An extension [Manifest][doc-manifest] gives the browser information about the extension, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An extension [manifest][doc-manifest] gives the browser information about the extension, such as
```

> the most important files and the capabilities the extension might use. The extension platform features change when there's a new [Manifest version][manifest-version].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the most important files and the capabilities the extension might use. The extension platform features change when there's a new [manifest version][manifest-version].
```

## Introducing Manifest V3 

> Manifest V3 represents one of the most significant shifts in the extensions platform since it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifest V3 is one of the most significant shifts in the extensions platform since it
```

Reviewer: See [definition 2](https://www.google.com/search?q=represents&oq=represents&aqs=chrome..69i57j0i131i433i512j69i65j69i61l3j69i65l2.1370j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8). I'm not sure that 'amounts to' is what you had in mind here. If 'is' is too strong, the other option is to rewrite the sentence.

cc: @dotproto

Reviewer: I'll merge when you all decided what to do with this.

Reviewer 2: Amy is going to merge (or maybe already has merged) this change.

For context, the use of "represets" here was intentional. We were saying that not only is Manifest V3 itself a major change, it is also the manifestation of a shift in a philosophical shift in how we're thinking about browser extensions. Another major change coming is a change to how Chrome approaches host permissions grants; in the future the browser will default to run "when you click the extension" rather than "on all sites". There are also other manifestations, such as how we approach API design and the review process.

Ultimately, though, Manifest V3 itself is a huge change and the subtlety of "is" vs. "represents" in this context is mostly just debating the color of the bikeshed.

> launched a decade ago. Manifest V3 extensions will enjoy enhancements in security, privacy, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
launched a decade ago. Manifest V3 extensions enjoy enhancements in security, privacy, and
```

> performance; they can also use more contemporary Open Web technologies such as service workers and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performance; they can also use more contemporary open web technologies such as service workers and
```

promises. 

## Manifest V3 resources

> Manifest V3 is part of a shift in the philosophy behind how we approach end-user security and privacy. The following articles provide an overview of Manifest V3, the reasons behind it, and how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifest V3 is part of a shift in the philosophy behind user security and privacy. The following articles provide an overview of Manifest V3, the reasons behind it, and how to
```

Reviewer: A writing best practice is to omit needless words. Needless words are any that can be removed without changing the meaning of the sentence.

Author: Totally agree!! 💯

approach it:

[Platform vision][mv3-platform]
: Explains how the Manifest V3 changes fit into the big picture of where the platform is going.

[Overview of Manifest V3][mv3-overview]
: Summarizes the technical changes introduced with Manifest V3.

[Migration guide][mv3-migration]
: Describes how to get started updating Manifest V2 extensions so they work in Manifest V3.

[Migration checklist][mv3-checklist]
: Provides a quick checklist to help adapt your extension to Manifest V3.

## Start the conversion

> As of January 17, 2022 the Chrome Web Store has stopped accepting new Manifest V2 extensions. We strongly recommend to begin migrating your extensions to Manifest V3 as soon as possible; this will become mandatory as [Manifest V2 will be phasing out][mv2-sunset] in 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of January 17, 2022 the Chrome Web Store has stopped accepting new Manifest V2 extensions. We strongly recommend migrating your extensions to Manifest V3 as soon as possible; this will become mandatory after [Manifest V2 is phased out][mv2-sunset] in 2023.
```

## Keep up with the latest news

We're excited about the improvements that Manifest V3 brings to the platform. Look for new

> announcements in [What's new in Chrome Extensions][doc-new] article and the [Chrome Developer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
announcements in [What's new in Chrome Extensions][doc-new] and the [Chrome Developer
```
